Add docs to accompany AMD-accelerated OPEA ChatQnA pattern (#567)
validatedpatterns/docs: content/patterns/amd-rag-chat-qna/amd-rag-chat-qna-getting-started.adoc

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/Welcome.html[S3] documentation for further information on bucket setup & configuration.
* Install pattern https://validatedpatterns.io/learn/quickstart/[tooling dependencies].

=== Model Setup

* If you prefer to utilize tools provided with this project for preparation of the prerequisite model, we'll first <<install_rhoai,install OpenShift AI>> in order to leverage a workbench for notebook access.
+
[NOTE]
====
If you are familiar with the steps necessary for downloading the `Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct` model & copying to a Minio/S3 bucket, you may do so & proceed to <<clone_pattern_code,Clone Code Repository>> below. OpenShift AI will be
installed later during pattern execution.

If you prefer to run the provided notebooks in another environment, you may do so & skip to <<notebook_model_prep, Upload Model using Red Hat OpenShift AI>> below for further instructions. OpenShift AI will be installed later during pattern execution.
====

Install Red Hat OpenShift AI:: [[install_rhoai]]

> If not already installed on the cluster, follow this https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openshift_ai_self-managed/2.13/html-single/installing_and_uninstalling_openshift_ai_self-managed/index#installing-and-deploying-openshift-ai_install[link]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install Red Hat OpenShift AI, refer to link: https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openshift_ai_self-managed/2.13/html-single/installing_and_uninstalling_openshift_ai_self-managed/index#installing-and-deploying-openshift-ai_install[Installing and deploying OpenShift AI]
```

> to install Red Hat OpenShift AI. Follow the given steps to deploy the model for this article:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy the model, complete the following steps:
```

* Open up Red Hat OpenShift AI by selecting it from the OpenShift Application Launcher. This will open up Red Hat OpenShift AI in a new tab.
* In the Red Hat OpenShift AI window, select Data Science projects in the sidebar and click on the Create project button.
* Name the new project `chatqna-llm`. +

[start=0]
Create Connection::

> Follow the steps given below to create a Connection that will be used by the init-container to fetch the model uploaded in next step when deploying the mode for inferencing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a connection, complete the following steps. The connection will be used by init-container to fetch the model uploaded in next step when deploying the model for inferencing:
```

> * Click on the Create connection button in the Connections tab in your newly created project

Reviewer: Use ordered list for procedures
```suggestion
. Click on the Create connection button in the Connections tab in your newly created project
```

* Select `S3 compatible object storage - v1` in the Connection type dropdown
+
image::/images/qna-chat-amd/rhoai-create-connection.png[Red Hat OpenShift AI - Create Connection - Connection type, 60%, 60%]
+
* Use the following values for this data connection:
** Connection name: `model-store`
** Connection description: `Connection that points to the model store` (_you can provide any relevant description here_)
** Access key: MinIO username if using MinIO, else use AWS credentials
** Secret key: MinIO password if using MinIO, else use AWS credentials
** Endpoint: minio-api route location, from OCP cluster, if using MinIO, else use AWS S3 endpoint that is in the format of `https://s3.<REGION>.amazonaws.com`
** Region: `us-east-1` if using MinIO, otherwise use the correct AWS region
** Bucket: `models`
+
--
*** This bucket will be created by the Jupyter notebook, if it does not exist, when uploading the model
*** If using AWS S3 and the bucket does not exist, make sure correct permissions are assigned to the IAM user to be able to create the bucket
+
{empty} +
--
+
image::/images/qna-chat-amd/rhoai-create-connection-2.png[Red Hat OpenShift AI - Create connection]

[start=0]

> Create Workbench::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create workbench::
```

> To upload the model that is needed for this article, you need to create a workbench first. In the chatqna-llm data science project, create a new workbench by clicking the Create workbench button in the Workbenches tab.

Reviewer: By _article_, did you mean this _pattern_?

* Use the following values to create the workbench:
** Name: `chatqna`
** Image selection: `ROCm-PyTorch`
** Version selection: `2025.1`
** Container size: `Medium`
** Accelerator: `AMD`
** Cluster storage: Make sure the storage is at least 50GB
** Connection: Click on Attach existing connections button and attach the connection named model-store created in the previous step. This will pass on the connection values to the workbench when it is started, which will be used to upload the model.
* Create the workbench by clicking on the `Create workbench` button. This workbench will be started and will move to `Running` status soon.
+
image::/images/qna-chat-amd/rhoai-create-workbench.png[Red Hat OpenShift AI - Create Workbench - Attach existing connections]

> === Upload Model using Red Hat OpenShift AI [[notebook_model_prep]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Upload model using Red Hat OpenShift AI [[notebook_model_prep]]
```

To serve the model, we will need to first download the model using the workbench created in the previous step as well as upload it to either MinIO or AWS S3, using the connection named model-store created in one of the previous steps. Follow the steps given in this section to serve the model.

Open Workbench::

Open workbench named `chatqna` by following these steps:

> * Once `chatqna` workbench is in `Running` status, open the workbench by clicking on its name, in `Workbenches` tab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Once `chatqna` workbench is in `Running` status, open the workbench by clicking on its name, in `Workbenches` tab
```

* The workbench will open up in a new tab
** When the workbench is opened for the first time, you will be shown an _Authorize Access page_
** Click `Allow selected permissions` button in this page

> Clone Code Repository:: [[clone_pattern_code]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clone code repository:: [[clone_pattern_code]]
```

Now that the workbench is created and running, follow these steps to setup the project:

* In the open workbench, click on the `Terminal` icon in the `Launcher` tab.
* Clone the following repository in the Terminal by running the following command:

    git clone https://github.com/validatedpatterns-sandbox/qna-chat-amd.git

Run Jupyter notebook::

The notebook mentioned in this section is used to download the `meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct` model and upload it to either MinIO or AWS S3.

> * Once the repository is cloned, select the folder where you cloned the repository (in the sidebar) and open `scripts/model-setup/upload-model.ipynb` jupyter notebook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* After the repository is cloned, select the folder where you cloned the repository (in the sidebar) and open `scripts/model-setup/upload-model.ipynb` jupyter notebook
```

* Model framework: `vLLM`
* Deployment mode: `Advanced`
* Model server size: `Small`
* Accelerator: `AMD`
* Model route: Enable `Make deployed models available through an external route` checkbox
* Source Model location: Select `Existing connection` option
+
--
** Name: `model-store` (this is the name we used when we created the connection in `Create Connection` step)
** Path: `Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct`
*** Location where the model was copied to in the previous step
--
+
Click on Deploy to deploy this model. Once the model is successfully deployed, copy the inference endpoint to use it in the ChatQnA application (it will take a few minutes to deploy the model).
+
[WARNING]
====
Make sure the model name is set to `llama-31b` as this is the value used in the deployment of llm micro-service that invokes the inference endpoint.
====

=== Deploy ChatQnA application

This section provides details on installing the ChatQnA application as well as verifying the deployment and configuration by querying the application.

Install ChatQnA app::

Once all the prerequisites are met, install the ChatQnA application
* Clone the repository by running the following commands:
+

>     git clone https://github.com/validatedpatterns-sandbox/qna-chat-amd.git

Reviewer: Global comment: Use appropriate code blacks for commands and code snippets
```suggestion
    [source,terminal]
    git clone https://github.com/validatedpatterns-sandbox/qna-chat-amd.git
```

    cd qna-chat-amd
+
* Configure secrets for Hugging Face and inference endpoint
+
    cp values-secret.yaml.template ~/values-secret-qna-chat-amd.yaml
+
* Modify the `value` field in `~/values-secret-qna-chat-amd.yaml` file
+

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,yaml]
----
```

Author: for some reason it didn't recognize the fix for this one, but it's in there.

----
+
The response for this query makes use of the Nike knowledge base, added in previous step, and is shown in the figure below:
+
image::/images/qna-chat-amd/chatqna-request-response.png[ChatQnA UI - request and response,50%,50%]
+
Query ChatQnA - remove external knowledge base::

Follow the steps given in this section to remove the external knowledge base that was added to the app:

* Click on the upload icon in the top right corner
* Move your cursor on top of the file in the Data Source section and click on the trashcan icon that pops up in the top right corner of the file icon.
* Select `Yes, I'm sure` when prompted with `"Confirm file deletion?"` dialog
+
image::/images/qna-chat-amd/chatqna-delete-file.png[ChatQnA UI - delete knowledge base,40%,40%]
+

Query ChatQnA - general questions::

* When the knowledge base is not added to the app, you can also use the application to ask general questions, such as:
** Tell me more about Red Hat
** What services does red hat provide?
** What is Deep Learning?
** What is a Neural Network?
+
image::/images/qna-chat-amd/chatqna-long-response.png[ChatQnA UI - response for general questions,50%,50%]

> === Wrap Up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Conclusion
```
